my plan is to get people to understand
if we don't act things will get worse
that is really powerful right because things
are bad now but people are willing to accept
it because they think it's temporary
and they think things will get better
if people were aware simultaneously
that things will get worse which they
will and that is fixable which
it is they would demand action
for me change is still the goal but
it's a long-term goal because I think
you know what what I'm want
to do what I'm trying to do
is it's a big thing it's difficult it's not easy
it's not just something you're going to go out
there and you're going to achieve like it's
um you know the situation is really really bad
um and it's it's a situation which is enriching
most powerful people in the world right so
a lot of them want it to continue um and
there are some rich and powerful people who
are saying we need to reduce it we need to do
something about it but most people most rich
people feel they're benefiting from it right
so if you if you're trying to do something
which most rich and powerful people
oppose it's difficult right so for me
I want to achieve change but
I know that that is a massive task and we will
only achieve that if we have long term thinking
so I guess now is a good time to talk about
a question we've got getting a lot on the channel
recently which is what can we do what can I do um
and for me
I think it's really important
that people understand
we cannot win this fight in the short term it's
too big it's too difficult and me personally
I'm not thinking short term because I
don't think we can win this short term
I think that but I do think we can win it
and I think the the way that we can win it
is by spreading the message
that if nothing is done about growing inequality
and growing inequality of wealth things will get
really seriously worse not just for the poor but
for 70 80 90 percent relatively quickly um
and the power of that message is that it's
true and I remember when we first started
this channel which was around about the
same time I first started writing articles
I remember my second ever published article which
is for the website open democracy they they called
me up and they were like your first like was
really good do you want to write a second one
and I said what I want to do is just make a list
of predictions just a list of predictions and
partly that was because my professional
history as a trader is making predictions
making predictions which people don't think are
right but will turn out to be right that's how
you make money as a trader so as a trader all
I was trying to do was think what is actually
going to happen that people don't realise and you
know all those predictions were terrible things
massive increase in inequality, massive increase in
house prices, massive increase in inflation, massive
decrease in living standards right but the reason
I wanted to make those predictions is because
there's a power in being right that you
can only get from understanding the truth
if your arguments are wrong then your predictions
will be wrong but the power that we have is that
this generates correct prediction so these things
I say I'm gonna are gonna happen they will happen
so if we keep going out there and making these
predictions and saying this will happen this will
happen this will happen this will happen specific
things like I'm saying now house prices are going
to go through the roof you know I mean & living
stands will continue to fall these kinds of things
um you know people can go out now and look
at video from two and a half years ago
of me basically saying everything that's happened
has happened that's powerful you see what I'm
saying um that's the strength of the message
the strength of the message is that it's right
the weakness of the message and the
trouble we're going to have is thisis a
f***ing bleak message right it's a bleak
message and people don't want to believe
that society is headed into a disaster an
explosion in poverty you know collapse in living
standards people don't want to believe they are
I don't want to believe that you know what I mean
um so that is what we have to fight
against and I think the way that we
fight against that is we have to first of all
we have to speak with compassion all the time
and we have to speak with an awareness that
other people are getting hit more than us and
you know you said yourself you came into this
channel because you're aware you're in a much
better situation than others you know what I mean
and I'm always aware of that you know so we have
to be compassionate when we speak and understand
that people are struggling but on top of that we
need to provide this positivity of message which
is if we do something about this wealth inequality
if we manage to reverse that motion of increasing
wealth inequality and start driving wealth in the
other direction we can really see living standards
andquality of living improve and I think that is
100% true as well so we need to combine with that
positive message I think that's probably something
that we haven't done enough that I haven't done
enough to provide that positivity on the side
um and I think that's partially because it's hard
for me person you know this is something which you
know I've gone around for 12-13 years now betting
that society is going to go to s*** you know
what I mean and being right and making millions
of pounds doing that and um you know people can
point to me and say well that's great for you but
you know what I mean I've known since I was in my
mid-20s that society is you know is collapsing
and I have to carry that around you know what I
mean you know it's not dinner party conversation
you know you go on a date and people say what's
your job and you know and if they what do you do
what do you think you know are you going to tell
them well what I think is poverty is going to
explode the middle class is going to disappear
there's going to be you know living standards
will collapse you know you want to tell somebody
that this is a thing I have to carry around
with me so I think that sometimes that's a
difficult burden for me to carry maybe I want to
share that but like we need to be able to find
some hope and some positivity to bring
people in um but I think at the same time
what I would say to the people who are saying what
can I do what can I do what can I do is firstly
that I'm mad grateful for the support that these
people provide ultimately like my plan is to try
and make my voice as big as possible and this
platform as big as possible so that we can
have power to force politicians to act that's
my plan so my plan is a 100% dependent on the
support of the people who watch and and people
who watch sharing and helping it to grow so it
we absolutely 100% need them they are the whole plan
and I appreciate that they want to help me now um
but what I need to tell them is we are not strong
enough to win this now we are not strong enough
to win this now and I'm not planning to win this
today I'm not planning to win this tomorrow I'm
not planning to win this next year I'm not
planning to win this the year after this is
going to be a massive fight a massive fight and
I'm thinking long term I'm thinking long term so
really that's why all I'm thinking about is growth
grow the voice, grow the power, grow the message
and you know I'm writing this book becauseI
think that's going to give us growth down theline
and that's taking me away from being able to
promote the YouTube as much as I would like to
but ultimately I'm not trying to be big next month
I'm trying to be big in five years time you know
what I mean because I want to be big enough that
I can force these politicians to do something so
I know there's people out there want to do
something now I want to do something now and
you know it's frustrating for me that all I can
really say is look push us help us to grow you
know that's I wish I could give more and you
know there are people you know there's there's
that there's this guy's made a song for us you
know what I mean and I would love to be able to
support and push that I appreciate this stuff that
people are doing and really I appreciate it but
there's only so much I can do to support other
people at the moment I'm trying to grow it you
know what I mean I've got to write this book I'm
writing the book every day we're making the videos
um so what I would beg for people watching
issupport us be patient we're building this
is a long-term project and I know like you
know I know like if we had time if we had
energy we would do a meet-up we would do a
rally this kind of stuff but ultimately like
this is about power this is about power you
know and and the only way we have power to
force change is that is to build is to grow
more people more people long term um
so yeah that is the strategy and and
at the moment I'm not even really able to even
reply to all the messages right but it's it's
the reason that I keep emphasizing
when people ask community is because
ultimately my plan is to get people to
understand if we don't act things will get worse
that is really powerful right because things
are bad now but people are willing to accept
it because they think it's temporary
and they think things will get better
if people were aware simultaneously that things
will get worse which they will and that is
fixable which it is they would demand action so I
think this single message that wealth inequality
if it is allowed to get worse will
make people's lives worse and worse
that message can take the whole thing down
because if people knew that they wouldn't accept it
but the way we disseminate that message is by
spreading this message on this channel through
people's links of community you know I don't
have enough money to build a social movement
with my money what we have is a message and I
am depending upon ordinary people to spread it
through their links of community you see what
I'm saying so I need people to be together
because that is how we build the power
and I see in things like for example the way the
government is allowing the strikes to go on that
many people what they want is to
create division amongst ordinary
Ordinary working-class People because if
people in the private sector are hating
people in the public sector are people who are
not striking hating people who are striking
then we can't come together and we
can't build this positive message so
I wish I could do more and you know once the
bookis done we'll sit down and we'll think about
you know how can we better utilise the things
we want to support and how can we be better
help them spread the message but at the moment
like you know it's just me and you and our
resources are limited you know um but we will grow
it we will grow it but at the moment because I'm
prioritizing that medium long-term growth it means
I'm taken away a little bit from the short-termgrowth
but um yeah I think I honestly think we've
got a shot to create change but I think the people
watching it you know you know we live in a now
now now culture right you know people youknow
this is not Celebrity Big Brother you knowyou
don't watch it for 10 weeks & then I getfamous
you know I mean it's not how it works rightthis
is a big project this is a big project but um
you know right now we've got what 50-60,000 subs
you know if we have a million subs then we can
start making s*** happen but we we need to get
that you know what I mean you know 100k-200k
subs is not enough so we need to get that growth
and then then we can make it a movement you
know and then there'll be money coming in
and then we can hire people to help us grow
even more you know what I mean um but that's
that's how it has to be man it's it's it's
we have to be looking for long-term growth
because we will not win this in the short
term we'll not win this in the short term and
that is a bleak message but we're gonna have
some bleak times man we're gonna have some
bleak years and that is the other reason why
I tell people to focus on community because
it's you know you can see it right now right you
can see in the increase in long-term illness in
the increase in mental illness man like things are
tough things are going to get tougher and if we
you know they can take our money away from us and
they can make our lives more materially insecure
and I'm aware that it's not happening to me you
know I'm aware that I'm comfortable but that is
what's going to happen to ordinary people
but they can't take away is your connections
with your friends and your families in your
community so I think these are the things that
people are going to need number one to fight
backpolitically in the long term and number
two just to make life livable man like you that
is what people are going to need so um I think
people need to fight back against the division &try
& communicate with one another with compassion
and I know that's difficult um and in terms of
supporting us man just just keep doing what you're
doing spread spread the message share it around um
I wish I could give you more things and you know
I see people that post you know call into LBC get
on the TV whatever you can just spread the spread
the word spread the word but also like be aware
this is a long-term fight so don't burn yourselfout
hold yourself in help us grow we're going to
grow and then when we're big enough if we ever
get there then we will try to make change happen
but you know we don't want to shoot the load too
early man we're building we're building for power
so we can get change that that's that's the plan
housing could be so much more affordable wages
could be so much higher and we could have so
many more options in how we live our lives
someof them put a lot of money into paying
economists and think thanks to tell you that
inequalityis important for the economy
that is not true!